\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}

\title{Academic Writing}
\date{State Key Laboratory of Advanced Optical Communication System and Networks, Department of Electronic Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University}

\begin{document}
\maketitle
\section{Introduction}
 Students, professors and researchers in each discipline use academic writing to convey ideas, put forward arguments, and participate in academic dialogue. Academic writing is characterized by evidence based argumentation, precise choice of words, logical organization and impersonal tone. Although sometimes considered to be lengthy or difficult to understand, strong academic writing is on the contrary. It provides information, analysis and persuasion in a straightforward way, enabling readers to participate critically in academic dialogue.
 \section{Characteristics of Academic Writing}
 Most mathematics subjects adopt their own unique styles and customs. However, all academic writing has certain characteristics. Clear and limited focus. The focus of an academic paper argument or research question-is established early in the paper presentation. 
\newline
\hspace*{4}
 Each paragraph and sentence of the thesis is connected back to the main focus. Although the paper may contain background or contextual information, all content is used to support the paper presentation. Logical structure. All academic writing follows a logical and direct structure. The simplest forms of academic writing include introduction, text paragraph and conclusion. The introduction provides background information, lists the scope and direction of the paper, and describes the paper. The text paragraphs support the thesis statement, and each text paragraph describes a support point. Conclusion Review the paper, summarize the main points, and emphasize the significance of the paper findings. Each sentence and paragraph is logically connected to the next to provide a clear argument. Evidence-based arguments. Academic writing requires wise arguments. The statement must be supported by evidence, either from academic sources (such as research papers) or from quotations from major texts (such as literary analysis articles). The use of evidence provides credibility for the debate. Impersonal tone. The goal of academic writing is to convey logical arguments from an objective perspective. Academic writing avoids emotional, inflammatory, or other biased language. No matter whether you agree or disagree, it must be presented accurately and objectively in the paper.
\section{The Importance of Thesis Statements}
Suppose you have just completed an analytical paper for your literature class. If your partner or professor asks you about the content of your paper–what is the focus of your paper–you should be able to answer it clearly and concisely in one sentence. This sentence is your thesis statement. The thesis statement found at the end of the first paragraph is a sentence encapsulating the main idea of your thesis. It presents a general argument and may also identify the main points of support for the argument. Essentially, a paper statement is a road-map that tells the reader where the paper is going and how it will be implemented. Thesis statement plays an important role in writing. Once you have written your thesis statement, you have established a clear focus for your thesis. Reviewing the paper statement frequently will prevent you from deviating from the topic during the drafting phase. Of course, the thesis statement can (and should) be modified to reflect changes in the content or direction of the thesis. After all, its ultimate goal is to capture the main idea of the paper in a clear and definite way.
\section{Common Mistakes to Avoid}
Academic writers from all fields face similar challenges in the process of writing. By avoiding these common mistakes, you can improve your academic writing. Wordiness.  The goal of academic writing is to convey complex ideas in a clear and concise manner. Don't use confusing language to confuse the meaning of your argument. A vague or missing thesis statement.  Thesis statement is the most important sentence in any academic paper. Please ensure that your paper contains a clear statement of the paper and that each text paragraph is associated with the paper. Informal language.  Academic writing is formal and should not include slang, idioms or conversational language. Description without analysis.  Don't simply recreate the ideas or arguments in the material. Instead, analyze these arguments and explain how they relate to your own point of view. Not citing sources.  Keep the consistency of source format throughout the research and compilation process. Always use a citation format to refer to them.
\end{document}
